SPEAKER 1: Something
that I noticed
had just popped into canary--
I kind of knew there
was plans for it,
but I didn't realize
how far along it was,
and now it's in canary--
is Event Target.
SPEAKER 2: That's been a thing.
SPEAKER 1: That
has been a thing.
So Event Target is the
thing that gives us ad--
SPEAKER 2: It's a horrible
name, by the way, I think.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: Because,
like, the thing makes--
Event Target makes a thing--
something that can emit events.
SPEAKER 1: Well, Node calls
it EventEmitter, which
is a better name, I agree.
But Event Target has
been with us for,
like, many, many years and--
SPEAKER 2: As all the things
on the web that are ill-named
usually are.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
So we can't change it now.
But that's-- like, everything
that has addEventListener
inherits from Event Target.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
And the thing is,
it's usually something
that you only see in the specs.
You see, like, this new thing,
it implements Event Target.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: But
it's not actually--
SPEAKER 1: It extends.
SPEAKER 2: Or it extends.
But it actually cannot
extend it in your code.
BOTH: Until now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 1: Finally.
Like, because if you've
done anything with Events
before, that you've wanted
your own pub/sub or something
kind of system, you
end up thinking,
well, I'll get a library or
write my own or something.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
Like usually, you end
up with horrible hacks.
And I was one of these people
who wrote horrible hacks.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
Exactly.
Just to repeat something
that's already on the platform.
It's a total violation
of the extensible web.
And so people--
I think it was Domenic
Denicola-- have
got together and
actually inspected
what the constructor looks like
and how you would extend it,
and how you'd use it.
And it's now in canary.
You can do New Event Target.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, it's so good.
SPEAKER 1: You can do class
whatever extends event target.
And now you have
addEventListener.
Now you have dispatchEvents.
You've got the whole--
SPEAKER 2: Which are the
only two things you need.
SPEAKER 1: Right, exactly.
Well, and this is the thing.
There's this long-term
plan that, at some point,
we'll replace addEventListener.
Well, not replace it.
We'll enhance it
with observables.
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
I've seen the--
I'm going to call
it a scratch pad
because it's probably too early
to call that an even explainer.
SPEAKER 1: Well, there's
been loads, right?
There's been loads of little--
yeah, loads of little
ideas around this.
But the kind of--
the central agreement is that
this should be how we do--
SPEAKER 2: Things that
can do events should also
be able to do observables,
which is a stream of events.
But be careful with that.
SPEAKER 1: Right.
Yes.
But this means that you can--
if everyone starts
using Event Target now,
once we get the support
across the board,
it means when
observables do land--
SPEAKER 2: Support
across the board.
SPEAKER 1: Support
That's a good catchphrase.
Is that another
jingle that we need?
SPEAKER 2: Maybe.
SPEAKER 1: Probably not.
Yeah, but then when
observables land,
you'll get those
for free, as well.
SPEAKER 2: That would
be really, really good.
SPEAKER 1: It's one of those
things that kind of seems--
SPEAKER 2: Well, the
thing is I'm not sure
if the people listening slash
watching are necessarily
aware of what you have to do.
Because the only things
that Extended Event Target
were tangible for you
were DOM elements.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: Or message boards.
SPEAKER 2: As far as I know.
SPEAKER 1: There's
lots of-- well,
things like
navigator.serviceworker
extends Event Target.
There's lots of stuff.
Yeah.
SPEAKER 2: So for
example, the thing--
I basically wrote
a little tweet.
I was like, oh, look,
here is a nice way we can
build your own Event Target.
I would legit just create a
message ship port-- message
channel-- which is a message
board, rip out one port,
and it would have Dispatch
Event and Add Event Listener.
And I will just bind these
functions to my own optic.
And suddenly, my optic
would be kind of like--
SPEAKER 1: Right.
That's a nice hack, just
built around a very small--
SPEAKER 2: But
it's still a hack.
For example,
event.target was always
going to be wrong because it
would be the message boards
of the actual object I used.
SPEAKER 1: And "this"
in the function
would be wrong for
the same reason
because that's the Event Target.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah, unless
you bound to this
and your functions are--
SPEAKER 1: Oh, yeah.
SPEAKER 2: It's just--
and then Remove Event
Listener wouldn't work again.
You know?
SPEAKER 1: Unless you
patch that through.
Yeah.
OK.
SPEAKER 2: It was just horrible.
And people were using
it anyway because there
was no other choice.
And so it's so good that they
finally came up with something
like this.
Yes.
SPEAKER 1: It's just
another thing in the browser
that's exposed to developers,
as it should have always been.
SPEAKER 2: Extensible web.
It works.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]